msgthr - container-agnostic, non-recursive message threading
------------------------------------------------------------

Pure Ruby message threading based on the algorithm described by
JWZ in <https://www.jwz.org/doc/threading.html> and used in
countless mail and news readers; but with some features removed
and improved flexibility:

* Message format-agnostic, not limited to email or NNTP;
  but even appropriate for forums, blog comments, IM, etc.
  For mail and NNTP messages, that means you must extract
  the Message-ID and parse the References and In-Reply-To
  headers into an array yourself.

* No recursion; all algorithms are non-recursive to avoid
  SystemStackError exceptions in deep message threads.
  Memory usage is bound by the number of lightweight containers
  needed to represent a thread.

* No pruning of non-leaf ghosts.  Readers are not shielded
  from deleted or lost messages.  Equivalent to setting
  "hide_missing" to "no" in mutt.

* No grouping by subject[1].  This makes things ideal for short
  messages such as chat and status updates.  For email, this
  encourages the use of proper client which set In-Reply-To
  or References headers.  Equivalent to setting "strict_threads"
  to "yes" in mutt.

  [1] - Instead, messages with the same Subject can be grouped
        by a search engine.  For email, this would be done using
        a mail search engine like notmuch or mairix.

Source code
-----------

Our Ruby 1.9.3+ compatible code is available via git,
no C compiler or other dependencies are required:

	git clone git://80x24.org/msgthr
	git clone https://80x24.org/msgthr.git

Releases may be downloaded via RubyGems:

	gem fetch [-v VERSION] msgthr

The code used in this Ruby library was originally derived from
the Mail::Thread module for Perl 5.x:

	https://metacpan.org/release/Mail-Thread

Contact
-------

Feedback is welcome via plain-text mail (no HTML, images, etc).
Please send comments, user/dev discussion, patches, bug reports,
and pull requests to the open-to-all mailing list at:

	msgthr-public@80x24.org

No subscription will ever be required to post.  Please Cc: all
recipients as subscription will never be necessary.

Mailing list archives are available via HTTPS and NNTP:

	https://80x24.org/msgthr-public/
	nntp://news.public-inbox.org/inbox.comp.lang.ruby.msgthr

You may optionally subscribe, but will never be required to:

	msgthr-public+subscribe@80x24.org

This README is our homepage, we would rather be working on cool
stuff day than worrying about the next browser vulnerability
because CSS/JS/images are all too complicated for us.

RDoc API documentation in simple HTML is available at:

	https://80x24.org/msgthr/rdoc/

Copyright
---------

Copyright 2016-2017, all contributors (see git repo).
License: GPL-2.0+ <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.txt>

msgthr is copyrighted Free Software by all contributors, see logs in
revision control for names and email addresses of all of them.

msgthr is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
the License, or (at your option) any later version.

msgthr is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
License along with this program; if not, see
https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.txt
